# Singly Linked List

## Description

This is a javascript implementation of a [singly linked
list](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list) data structure.

In simple terms, a singly linked list consists of one or more 'nodes'.  Each
node has a data field (which can contain any data--a primative value or complex
object) and a pointer to the next 'node'. This link to the next node is
where this data structure got its descriptive name.

This implemenation provides basic functionality of adding nodes to the front or
back of the list, as well as the ability to insert a node at a given position
in the list.  It also provides the ability to remove nodes at the front or back
of the list, or from any given position.

The find, or search, functionality provides the ability to find the first node
containing specified data. It also provides the ability to find a node given a
specific position, or index, in the list.


*For specific examples and documentation, see the below sections*

### Motivation:

**I wholehearedly acknowledge that the basic data structure space is populated
with well-written code and efficient implementations, and one could easily grab
one of those libraries and integrate it with their project.  However, the main
difference between those libraries/implementations and this one is that this is
the best implementation I have ever written.  My hope is that someone else will
find this as useful as I do.  But understand, this code, or end product, is not
the goal; this will simply be a useful bi-product of the journey.  The
underlying motivation is to understand and, more importantly, learn from the
process to get to the end-state&mdash;for me it is all about the joy of the
journey.**

#### Environment:

Although this implementation is designed to be used with
[Node.js](http://www.nodejs.org), it could be used in other contexts with minor
modifications.  _Disclaimer: I have not tested this implementation in any other
context/environment; only tested with node.js_

----

### TODO
- write 'quick start' guide
- write API specific documentation

